Kubernetes Learning [Day 02]

Let's learn about Kubernetes Cluster Components-Architecture🚀

It is essential to understand that Kubernetes is a distributed system.

Meaning, it has multiple components spread across different servers over a network. These servers could be Virtual machines or bare metal servers.

As a whole, we call it a Kubernetes cluster.

A Kubernetes cluster consists of a control plane and a data plane means Master node and worker nodes.

✅ The control plane (Master node) is responsible for maintaining the desired state of the cluster. It is also responsible for node/pod lifecycle management and exposing cluster API. It has the following components.

1. kube-apiserver
2. etcd
3. kube-scheduler
4. kube-controller-manager
5. cloud-controller-manager

✅ The Data plane (Worker node) is responsible for running containerized applications. The worker Node has the following components.

1. kubelet
2. kube-proxy
3. Container runtime (CRI-O, Dockershim, Containerd, etc)

✅ Additionally there are add-on components that you can add to the cluster to extend its functionality and make the cluster fully functional for application deployments.

Following are some of the common Kubernetes add-ons

1. Web UI
2. Core DNS
3. Metrics Server
4. CNI Plugins (Container Network Interface)

In this Kubernetes distributed scenario, the connection happening through the network to connect with different Kubernetes components should be secure and all the components should be able to authenticate each other.

Kubernetes uses PKI certificates for authentication over TLS.

In the upcoming posts, I will cover each component and its significance in detail.

Links to my Kubernetes learning resources: https://lnkd.in/dpu3E8tM

https://lnkd.in/gVKzyuud

https://lnkd.in/g7CJtHds


My previous Kubernetes post: https://lnkd.in/gC_hXrpA


Note: I've written based on my current level of learning so I welcome any feedback or corrections from those who may have more expertise in the subject matter.